Holden Caufield is a person with many mixed feelings.  His 
happiness was left, but not forgotten in the past, and he suffers terribly 
because he cannot adjust to these changes to his world and also to himself. 
In the strong sense, looking back at the lost sense of reality that he 
still hangs on to, relieves him of all the troubles he has at the present 
time.  He always compares things that happened in the past to events that 
happen in the present.  The song, "Hurt," by Nine Inch Nails (NIN), written 
by Trent Reznor, represents many of the feelings Holden experiences in his 
time of change.  The similarities in suffering, adjustment, and remembrance 
between the song "Hurt," by Nine Inch Nails and the novel The Catcher in 
the Rye, by J.D. Salinger show that Holden Caufield is not the only person 
that experiences these feelings. 

Throughout the novel Holden undergoes countless suffering from his 
peers, strangers, and his own mind.  Throughout the song, Reznor suffers 
from everything.  As said in the song, "I hurt myself today, to see if I 
still feel," Reznor is accounting all the suffering that he has experienced. 
He tries to explain that all the terrible things that have happened to him, 
all the terrible things he has seen, with a nonstop chronic beat, has made 
his soul numb.  He has lost track of reality and fallen into this deep hole. 

Mr. Antolini, Holden's old teacher, said to him that he was headed for a 
great fall.  Little did he know that throughout the novel, Holden has been 
falling until he reached a stopping point towards the end of the story, 
when he decides to stay home.  This is exactly what Reznor is trying to 
dictate in his song.  All these events have made him continuously suffer 
that at one point, the pain just goes away.  The suffering that Holden 
feels, the drunk, sick, child in danger of catching pneumonia easily 
relates to the dying, beaten young man that Reznor feels he has become. 

For both Holden and Reznor, adjustment to the changes in the world 
is a difficult task not only physically but emotionally.  Holden hates 
himself because he fears that he is changing: he has grayed out hair, he 
tries going into clubs, he smokes, he is too drinks too much.  Reznor hates 
himself because he knows that he has become another person with a different 
personality that no one wants to be near anymore: his body is numb, he 
regrets the present by referring to the past, his realization he has become 
someone completely different, and he ignores the facts that attack him in 
the present.  When he states: 

            "Beneath the stain of time, 
            The feeling disappears. 
            You are someone else, 
            I am still right here, 
            What have I become, 
            My sweetest friend, 
            Everyone I know, 
            Goes away in the end,"   

Reznor is explaining that when he remembers the past, his troubles 
disappear and he looks forward to seeing the future.  The fact of the 
matter is that he realizes that his friends have changed, yet he has 
changed himself, therefore for each reason these friends would increase 
their differences, the more the possibility that they would become more of 
strangers to each other.  Holden experiences this several times throughout 
the novel. When he talks about Jane, the way she used to be perfect, 
placing her kings in the back because it would look nice, and now he has 
come to believe that she 'gave time to Stradlater in Ed Banky's car.'  He 
tries to see Sally Hayes and when he finally meets her, he realizes that 
she has become more of a phony than ever.  He speaks to Carl Luce, an old 
roomate he used to have in which they were good friends, but he notices 
that he has become more self-centered and too materialistic.  He converses 
with Mr. Antolini, though he begins to suspect that he was making passes at 
him.  Both Holden and Reznor are people that do not adjust to changes as 
well as other people, and this makes them different because they are the 
only two people that realizes that their pureness and innocence has fled 
their souls. 

The most important part of their lives was in their past.  Holden's 
brother, Allie, was the smartest kid he knew, Phoebe is probably the nicest 
sister he remembers knowing, and Jane used to be the perfect girl.  He 
remembers many past events in the novel and tries to relate them to the 
present.  Holden also uses symbols in remembrance to certain events in the 
past.  Allie's baseball mitt, with poems written on them remind him of the 
greatness he knew his brother as.  Allie died at a perfect age, and he had 
not yet done anything wrong, because children always speak their mind.  As 
Holden remembers the past, he is relieved because his thoughts of the past 
are full of innocence. However, not all of them were happy thoughts.  As 
Reznor dictates, "Full of broken thoughts, I cannot repair," he knows that 
he has made many mistakes, some small and some terribly big, and through 
his regrets he becomes a sufferer.  Holden regrets that his brother died, 
because there is nothing he can do to undo the past.  He regrets flunking 
out of school.  He also regrets that his mom got him skates that he never 
used, in which he feels that he should have used them.  Reznor regrets many 
events in his past also, by showing "That old familiar sting" takes him 
back and relieves him.  However, both Holden and Reznor dream, "If I could 
start again, a million miles away, I would keep myself,  I will find a 
way." they would both try to make themselves better people if things had 
not gone the way they did.  In all this remembrance, both of them seem to 
realize that this beautiful copper circle of life remained in the past, and 
now that copper has begun to rust away its purity.   

Holden and Reznor are two people that are stuck between the truth 
about the past and the present.  They both suffer because of the terrible 
changes the world has adapted to and they suffer from the changes they also 
undergo, that the world has lost its sense of happiness, and they both have 
to adjust to this new, bigger, lonely world. They both establish the fact 
that the past was their golden era, but they must face the truth that life 
goes on.  Holden and Trent Reznor are two very special people because they 
are unique in that they see that their childhood was either lived up to or 
unfinished, since most of us do not take the time to think if we have made 
our life good or not.  Both these people understand something we could 
never understand; the fact that happiness should be the most appreciated 
thing in life, and not physical achievement.  Though they might not be 
transcendentalists, they view society as corrupt, misunderstood, and 
illogical.  Since they are smart enough to see that fact, they realize that 
they completed their life of happiness in the past, and now they suffer 
because they have nowhere to go, when we are still blazing forward in this 
field of rye... 