The Catcher in the Rye 

The catcher in the rye is a work of fiction and a tragic-comedy. 
I came to choose it because I heard it is about a boy who is around my age. 

In this book, the main character, Holden Caulfield, tells 
us a story about what happened during his Christmas vacation. 
Holden is a sixteen-year-old boy who has flunked out of a private 
prep school. Because he is afraid that his parents would find out 
this fact, he goes to a hotel in New York City instead of going 
home after he leaves school for Christmas vacation. In New York, 
many things happen to him within a few days. For example, he goes 
to the hotel bar and meets three women after he first arrives 
there. The women go away soon after he fails to talk with them, 
and Holden feels lonely and depressed. He goes to another bar to 
find someone to spend some time with, but he fails to find anyone 
to talk to and comes back to the hotel feeling more depressed. In 
the hotel, he meets a prostitute, but he sends her back without 
having sex because he feels depressed and sorry for her. He was 
further disappointed  when she tries to rob him of his money even 
though he tries to be nice to her. In the next morning, he has a 
date with an old girl friend, and asks her to flee from this 
corrupt world and live in the woods with him. However, she tells 
him he is crazy and then leaves him. Holden meets some more 
people later, but they also cannot solve his problems, and he 
feels more and more depressed and lonely. He finally decides to 
run away and live as a deaf-mute who will not need to communicate 
with anyone. Before leaving, he goes to say good-bye to his 
little sister, Pheobe, who he admires the most. While talking and 
playing with her, Holden changes his mind and decides to rejoin 
his family and because he realizes there are many things that he 
cannot solve by himself. 

The theme of this novel is how innocence is corrupted by 
society. Holden thinks everybody who is grown up is a phony 
because their behavior and advice are all false. The title of 
this book is based on an old game where someone catches children 
from falling off a cliff. This symbolizes that Holden wants to be 
the catcher in the rye because he wants to protect the 
vulnerable, especially to prevent small children from losing 
their innocence and becoming corrupted by society as they grow 
up. 

Holden Caulfield is an amusing character because he talks 
about everyone without my respect, but with much irreverence. 
This is shown thorough the language he uses which includes slang 
and swear words. Even though Holden believes in honesty or 
innocence, he is a pessimistic character because he seems to find 
something depressing in almost everything and everyone. He is 
also a depressed character because he feels alone in the most of 
the time, and he never finds any place where he feels 
comfortable. He doesnOt fit into this society where many people 
live by false values and take advantage of others. This is shown 
very well when he says: 
  
I keep picturing all these little kids playing some game 
in this big field of rye and all. Thousands of little kids, 
nobodyOs around- nobody big, I mean- except me. And IOm standing 
on the edge of some crazy cliff. What I have to do, I have to 
catch everybody if they start to go over the cliff- I mean if 
theyOre running and they donOt look theyOre going I have to come
out from somewhere and catch them. ThatOs all IOd do all day. IOd 
just be the catcher in the rye and all. I know itOs crazy, but 
thatOs the only thing IOd really like to be.
  
This shows Holden's compassion and sensitivity very well, 
but I feel sorry for him because nobody can understand his dream, 
and it is not realistic. Holden seems to be too good a person to 
be in this corrupt world. 

The style of this book is unusual because it is told by a 
sixteen-year-old boy who appears to be sympathetic since he is so 
amusing. However, one of the problems with this style is that 
some of the things he observes might not be true, but somewhat 
exaggerated and biased. We are not very sure that he is even 
mentally stable since he tells us the story from a hospital bed. 
Despite these things, this style is highly effective because it 
makes us very involved with him and sympathetic to him. 

I liked this book very much because it talks about the 
concerns of teenagers who feels the pressures of society. The 
some parts of the message of this book can be dangerous because 
they suggests rejecting school or society, but it also made me 
think about many things filled with the false standards, and I 
could find some of the real truths. I also appreciate the way 
Holden talks which is very comical even though heOs dealing with 
a serious and sad subject. 