The novel takes place over three days in December 1949. Holden Caulfield is a 16-year-old boy from New York City. 
He recently flunked out of prestigious boarding schools because he doesn't apply himself. Holden tells the story from a tuberculosis rest home.

Holden begins his story at Pencey Preparatory, an exclusive private school (fictional, though based on Salinger's own experience at 
Valley Forge Military Academy) in Agerstown, Pennsylvania, on the Saturday afternoon of the traditional football game with rival 
school Saxon Hall. Holden ends up missing the game. He is the manager of the fencing team and loses their equipment on a New York 
City subway train that morning, resulting in the cancellation of a match. Holden has been expelled from Pencey due to poor work 
and isn't to return after Christmas break, which begins the following Wednesday. On invitation, he goes to the home of his history 
teacher, Mr. Spencer. Spencer is a well-meaning but long-winded middle-aged man. To Holden's annoyance, Spencer reads aloud Holden's 
history paper, in which Holden wrote a note to Spencer so his teacher wouldn't feel bad about failing him in the subject.

Holden returns to his dorm, which is quiet because most of the students are still at the game. Wearing the new red hunting cap he 
bought in New York City, he begins re-reading a book (Out of Africa), but his distraction is temporary. First, his dorm neighbor Ackley
 disturbs him, although Holden is patient about it. Then later, Holden argues with his roommate Stradlater, who fails to appreciate a 
composition that Holden wrote for him about the baseball glove of Holden's late brother Allie. A womanizer, Stradlater has just returned 
from a date with Holden's old friend Jane Gallagher. Holden is distressed that Stradlater might have taken advantage of Jane. Stradlater 
does not appreciate Jane in the manner in which Holden does; Stradlater even refers to Jane as "Jean". The boys fight, and Stradlater wins
 easily. Fed up with Pencey Prep, Holden catches a train to New York City, where he plans to stay in a hotel until Wednesday, when his parents
 expect him home for New Year's vacation.

He checks into the dilapidated Edmont Hotel. After observing the behavior of the "perverts" in the hotel room facing his, he struggles 
with his own sexuality. He states that although he has had opportunities to lose his virginity, the timing never felt right and he was 
always respectful when a girl declined. He spends an evening dancing with three tourist women in their 30s, from Seattle, in the hotel 
lounge and enjoys dancing with one, but ends up with only the check (to pay). He is disappointed that the women seem unable to carry a 
conversation. Following an unpromising visit to Ernie's Nightclub in Greenwich Village, Holden agrees to have a prostitute named Sunny 
visit his room. His attitude toward the girl changes the minute she enters the room; she seems about the same age as he. Holden becomes 
uncomfortable with the situation, and when he tells her all he wants to do is talk, she becomes annoyed and leaves. Even though he still 
pays her the right amount for her time, she returns with her pimp Maurice and demands more money. Sunny takes five dollars from Holden's 
wallet; Maurice punches Holden in the stomach.

After a short sleep, Holden, lonely and in need of personal connection, calls Sally Hayes, a familiar date, and they agree to meet tha
t afternoon to attend a play. Holden leaves the hotel, checks his luggage at Grand Central Station, and has a late breakfast. He meets
 two nuns, one an English teacher, with whom he discusses Romeo and Juliet. Holden shops for a special record, "Little Shirley Beans",
 for his 10-year-old sister Phoebe. He likes this record and knows Phoebe will enjoy it. He spots a small boy singing "If a body catch 
a body coming through the rye", which makes him feel less depressed. The play he sees with Sally features Broadway stars Alfred Lunt and
 Lynn Fontanne. Afterward Holden and Sally go ice skating at Rockefeller Center. While drinking Coke, Holden impulsively invites Sally 
to run away with him to the wilderness. She declines, acts uninterested, and is too arrogant to try to understand Holden's point of view.

Sally's responses deflate Holden's mood, prompting him to remark: "You give me a royal pain in the ass, if you want to know the truth." 
He regrets it immediately, apologizing many times. Sally rejects his apology and refuses to let him take her home. She pompously states, 
"No boy ever said that to me in my entire life." Sally storms off as Holden follows, pleading with her to accept his apology. When she 
refuses, Holden finally leaves. After that, Holden sees the Christmas show at Radio City Music Hall, endures a film, and gets very drunk. 
Throughout the novel, Holden has been worried about the ducks in the lagoon at Central Park. He tries to find them but breaks Phoebe's record 
in the process, causing him to almost cry. He feels that he may not be good enough, and the record was the only thing he thought he had to 
offer to his sister. Exhausted physically, mentally, and financially, Holden heads home to see Phoebe.