Holden recalls the Museum of Natural History, which he often visited as a child. He contrasts his evolving life with the statues of Eskimos 
in a diorama: whereas the statues have remained unchanged through the years, he and the world have not. Eventually, he sneaks into his parents' 
apartment while they are out, to visit his younger sister—and close friend—Phoebe, the only person with whom he seems to be able to communicate 
his true feelings. Holden shares a selfless fantasy he has been thinking about (based on a mishearing of Robert Burns' Comin' Through the Rye): 
he pictures himself as the sole guardian of thousands of children playing an unspecified "game" in a huge rye field on the edge of a cliff. His 
job is to catch the children if, in their abandon, they come close to falling off the brink; to be, in effect, the "catcher in the rye". Because 
of this misinterpretation, Holden believes that to be the "catcher in the rye" means to save children from losing their innocence.

When his parents come home, Holden slips out and visits his former and much-admired English teacher, Mr. Antolini, who offers advice on life 
along with a place to sleep for the night. Mr. Antolini, quoting psychologist Wilhelm Stekel, advises Holden that wishing to die for a noble 
cause is the mark of the immature man, while it is the mark of the mature man to aspire to live humbly for one cause. This is at odds with 
Holden's ideas of becoming a "catcher in the rye", symbolically saving children from the evils of adulthood. During the speech on life, Mr. 
Antolini has a number of cocktails served in highball glasses. Holden is upset when he wakes up in the night to find Mr. Antolini patting 
his head in a way that he regards as "flitty" (homosexual). It makes Holden feel very uncomfortable and embarrassed. Confused and uncertain, 
he leaves as dawn is breaking and spends most of Monday morning wandering the city. He questions whether his interpretation of Mr. Antolini's 
actions was correct, and wonders how much it matters anyway.

Holden makes the decision that he will head out West and live as a deaf-mute. When he explains this plan to Phoebe on Monday at lunchtime, 
she wants to go with him. Holden declines her offer, which upsets Phoebe, so Holden decides not to leave after all. Phoebe was looking forward 
to acting in a play that Friday. Despite his displaying outward frustration and anger, it is clear Holden wants Phoebe to be happy and safe, 
and he didn't think she would be if she left with him. ("I think I hated her most because she wouldn't be in that play any more if she went 
away with me.") He tries to cheer her up by taking her to the Central Park Zoo, and as he watches her ride the zoo's carousel, he is filled 
with happiness and joy at the sight of Phoebe riding in the rain.

At the novel's conclusion, Holden decides not to mention much about later events up to the present day, finding them inconsequential. He alludes 
to "getting sick" and living in some sort of institution, and mentions he will be attending another school in September; he relates that he has 
been asked whether he will apply himself properly to his studies this time around and wonders whether such a question has any meaning before the 
fact. Holden says that he doesn't want to tell anything more because, surprisingly, he has found himself missing two of his former classmates, 
Stradlater and Ackley, and even Maurice, the pimp who punched him. He warns the reader that telling others about their own experiences will lead 
them to miss the people who shared them.