The proper action of the novel is a flashback of three days and two nights in mid-December 1949 year.
Holden, expelled from a private school Pencey Prep for a few days before the end of the first semester, 
watching from the hill in last season friendly match football school team. Then visit Professor Spencer, 
a history teacher, with whom he wanted to say goodbye before leaving for home, but irritated talking about 
his poor performance in science quickly end the visit.
In the evening, after returning to the dormitory Holden finds out that his roommate, Stradlater, was on a 
date with Jane Gallagher, a former friend Caulfield. When Stradlater not respond to questions about the course
 of dating, Holden tries to hit him, but is quickly defeated. He decides to leave school in the middle of the 
night and return to New York. To avoid a meeting with the family rents a room in the Hotel Edmont.
Holden visited two nightclubs, where he meets among others, ex-girlfriend of his brother, D. B., and three tourists
 from Seattle, with whom dancing. Still, he feels lonely; all encountered people perceived as shallow and boring 
snobs. In the hotel elevator boy boyfriend Maurice proposes services prostitutes; Holden agrees. When a young girl, 
Sunny, comes to his room, the boy loses courage. He proposes to spend time to talk, but annoyed Sunny comes out. 
Soon, the room appears Maurice Holden, demanding extra money. When Holden refuses to pay, Maurice hits him in the 
stomach and takes five dollars.
The next day, Sunday, Holden is going out to the theater with his former girlfriend, Sally Hayes. Earlier we go for 
breakfast at the Grand Central Station, where talking with two nuns. Because it did on a positive impression, it 
transmits ten dollars on charity. After breakfast buys a CD younger sister, Phoebe, and visited the Museum of Natural
 History, where he expects to meet a girl. After an evening out of the theater Holden confides Sally vile mood. On 
impulse, she offers her escape to New England and a life together. When she refuses, Holden commented sharply, causing 
Sally to cry, for which he later apologized to no avail.
Another day Holden spent wandering around the city; He meets old friends and mentions his younger brother, Alliego, who 
died of leukemia. At night, he decides to sneak into the house to visit Phoebe, because only it is able to really communicate. 
Shares with his sister fantasy (inspired by this announcement mistakenly song by Robert Burns - Comin 'Through the Rye) about 
being "a guard in the Rye" - the man guarding the children play happily in a big field of grain on the edge of the cliff. The 
task of "Catcher" is a grab children too come closer to the abyss. When parents come home, Holden runs away, asking her sister 
not to tell anyone about his visit. Stops with Mr. Antoliniego, a former English teacher, who appreciates. After a long conversation
 Holden falls asleep, but in the middle of the night wakes him Mr. Antolini, stroking her hair. Judging that the teacher wants to 
take advantage of sexually, the boy runs away again.
The next day, Monday, Holden wanders around the city, fantasizing about escape and start the solitary life. First, he decides to say
 goodbye to my sister, so leave a message for her at school. Phoebe arrives on-site meeting with a packed suitcase, insisting that 
the boy took it with him. Holden does not agree, which leads the girl to fury. To improve its humor, he takes Phoebe to the zoo and promises
 to never leave. When the girl takes the place on the carousel starts to downpour. Holden, suddenly overcome by great joy, is the rain, 
watching his sister.
In the last chapter Holden talks briefly about his current position - he is expected to begin studies at a new school. Much to his own 
surprise, he discovers that longs for those who, told even Stradlaterem and elevator boy Maurice.