Appropriate action of the novel is a flashback of three days and two nights in mid December 1949 years.
Holden, expelled from a private school Pencey Prep for a few days before the end of the first half, 
looking from the hill in the team last season friendly football match school. 
Then visit Professor Spencer, a history teacher, with whom he wanted to say goodbye before leaving home, 
but it irked talk about his poor performance in science quickly end the visit.
At night, after returning to the bedroom Holden learns that his roommate, Stradlater, was on a date with 
Jane Gallagher, an old friend Caulfield. When Stradlater not respond to questions about the course of dating, 
Holden tries to hit him, but is quickly defeated. He decides to leave school in the middle of the night and 
return to New York. To avoid a meeting with the family rents a room at the Hotel Edmont.
Holden visited two nightclubs, where is, among others, the former girlfriend of his brother, D. B., and three 
tourists from Seattle, to dance with. Still, he feels lonely; all persons found perceived as superficial and 
boring snobs. In the hotel elevator boyfriend Maurice child prostitutes proposed services; Holden agrees. When 
a girl, Sunny, comes to her room, the child loses value. It proposes to spend time to talk, but annoying Sunny 
comes out. Soon, the room looks Maurice Holden, demanding extra money. When Holden refuses to pay, Maurice punches
 him in the stomach and takes five dollars.
The next day, Sunday, Holden goes to the theater with his former girlfriend, Sally Hayes. Earlier we go for breakfast
 at the Grand Central Station, where two nuns speak. Because it did in a positive impression, it transmits ten dollars
 in charity. After breakfast buys a CD younger sister, Phoebe, and visited the Museum of Natural History, where he hopes
 to find a girl. After a night out of the living trust Sally Holden bad mood. On impulse, he offers to escape to New 
England and a life together. When she refuses, Holden said abruptly, causing Sally to mourn, for which he later apologized
 to no avail.