HOME
NEWS
HOLLYWOOD
STYLE
CULTURE
VIDEO
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIBE
STYLE
Korean Skin-Care with Soko Glam’s Charlotte Cho
Subscribe
TRENDING STORIES

The 2016 Cannes Red Carpet’s Best-Dressed Celebrities

Portraits from the 2016 Cannes Film Festival

An Illustrated History of Donald Trump’s Hair. Warning! Don’t Read Before Lunch!
Subscribe
SKIN-CARE GUIDEAPRIL 28, 2016 11:59 AM
Korean Skin-Care with Soko Glam’s Charlotte Cho

Soko Glam founder Charlotte Cho.
All images courtesy of Soko Glam.
BY AUDREY NOBLE
The infamous multi-step Korean skin care routine can be overwhelming, as it’s advertised almost everywhere as a 10-step process that requires the use of a lot of products that can be expensive and time-consuming. But to nix all those misconceptions is Charlotte Cho, founder of Korean beauty Web-site Soko Glam. “I always like to give a disclaimer, because a lot of people get caught up with the fact that it’s 10 steps,” she says. “Its really about a multitude of products you use. Ten is not really the number set in stone.”

Cho herself usually uses only six steps daily and then adds, depending on whether she has more time or her skin has more needs. “You can definitely substitute or skip steps,” she says.

For beginners like me who are interested in a K-beauty skin-care routine but have no idea where to even start, Soko Glam offers the Soko Glam 10-Step Korean Skin Care Routine Set. Available for normal, dry, and oily skin, each set contains 10 full-sized products needed for this regimen. “It is overwhelming to go to any site and try to figure out how to put together a multi-step routine,” says Cho. “We have basically removed all the guesswork, we simplified the steps, and we openly say, ’You don’t have to use these products every single day and night,’ as you know your skin, and you need to know what works best for you.”

After seeking much of Cho’s knowledge, paired with the sheer determination to achieve flawless, glowing skin, I embarked on a two-week challenge to follow a Korean skin-care routine every morning and every night using the products in the Soko Glam 10-Step Korean Skin Care Routine Set (Oily Skin Type). The result is the elusive clear, smooth skin I’ve been chasing after—no joke. While I will admit to cheating on some days, I broke out only when skipping the entire routine. (Yes, there were nights I used only a makeup remover before going to bed. Late weekend nights get the best of us!) Is this for everyone? Absolutely. There is no better set to help you learn the basics.

Cho breaks down each step below.

1) Double-cleansing


The Banila Co. Clean It Zero Purity cleanser and the Neogen Green Tea Real Fresh Foaming Cleanser.
It may seem redundant to wash your face twice, but this two-part step actually ensures you’re truly cleaning your skin and prepping it for receiving the products that follow.

The first cleanser used is an oil cleanser, to break down oil-based debris (i.e., makeup, pollution, and sunscreen). “The great thing about oil cleansers is that it removes all the oil-based debris gently, without stripping your face of natural oils,” Cho says. The Banila Co. Clean It Zero Purity cleanser is a solid balm that turns into oil when on skin. It completely takes off makeup while keeping the skin silky-smooth.

The second cleanse would be with a water-based cleanser. “It really helps give your skin a second wash,” she says. “It helps reduce any residue from dirt or sweat or any remaining impurities that you may have left over.” The Neogen Green Tea Real Fresh Foaming Cleanser has a green-tea extract that brightens and hydrates the skin.

If your skin can’t take the double-cleansing, no need to fret. You can choose one, but, Cho advises, look for cleansers without surfactants (ingredients that makes bubbles).

2) Exfoliation


The Goodal Deep Clean Pore Glacial Clay.
This step is essential if you want that dewy, glowing look. “You’re basically buffing away any dead skin cells that are blocking your skin-care products from absorbing, and it also helps give you a soft, refined texture as well,” she explains. Cho suggests not doing this everyday, as it can aggravate your skin. She only does this step when she has some extra time. The Goodal Deep Clean Pore Glacial Clay not only helps brighten the skin, but it helps clear up any outbreaks.

3) Toner


The Re:p Organic Cotton Treatment Toning Pad.
According to Cho, toners are known as skin-softeners, or in Korea as refreshers. They help prep the skin for the absorption of the rest of the products in this routine. The Re:p Organic Cotton Treatment Toning Pad has a threaded texture on one side, for manual exfoliation, and a smooth side on the other, to sweep away impurities. Toners also help to balance skin’s pH levels to help bring it back to its natural state.

4) Essence


The Corsx Advanced Snail 96 Mucin Power Essence.
Essences can often be confused with toners because they have the same watery consistency. But they are not the same thing, and they are not interchangeable.

“Your skin usually sheds every 28 days, and toners expedite that process. But as you get older, the turnover time frame actually increases. So, when you’re 50-years-old it will take 50 days for your skin cells to renew. That’s why a lot of older people have dull, dry skin. Therefore, essences are essential, as they accelerate cellular turnover, which brightens the skin,” she explains.

Try Corsx Advanced Snail 96 Mucin Power Essence, which not only promises to brighten but also to reduce the appearance of pores.

5) Serums, ampoules, or boosters


The Freshly Juiced Vitamin C Serum.
This step is for targeting specific skin issues, such as brown spots or acne. You can skip this step altogether or layer according to what you want to fix. But just remember to go from the least watery to the heaviest products. According to Cho, Klairs Freshly Juiced Vitamin C Serum evens out skin tone and brightens the complexion.

6) Sheet masks


The Banila Co It Radiant Lace Hydrogel Mask Sheet.
This is another step that doesn’t need to be done every day. The Banila Co It Radiant Lace Hydrogel Mask Sheet is a lacy mask that moisturizes the skin. Just remember that sheet masks are soaked with essence, so you don’t need to additionally use an essence.

7) Eye cream


The Missha Misa Cho Bo Yang Eye Cream.
The Missha Misa Cho Bo Yang Eye Cream is made with ginseng root and real gold (yes, real gold), and it tightens the skin around the eyes and keeps that sensitive part hydrated.

8) Moisturizer


The Benton Aloe Propolis Soothing Gel.
A moisturizer acts as a seal to lock in all the products cited previously on your skin; you want to protect and hydrate it. The Benton Aloe Propolis Soothing Gel is so lightweight that you won’t feel like you’re packing on another product. Made with aloe and propolis, your skin will stay hydrated for hours.

Thank you, Charlotte, for our awesome K-Beauty 101 Lesson!

SHARE
For more high-profile interviews, stunning photography, and thought-provoking features, subscribe now to Vanity Fair magazine.


RECOMMENDED

Leonardo DiCaprio and Kendall Jenner Make Waves at the Vanity Fair Cannes Party

The 2016 Cannes Red Carpet’s Best-Dressed Celebrities

Inside Vanity Fair’s 2016 Cannes Party

The Curious Case of Blake Lively’s Disappearing and Reappearing Baby Bump at Cannes

Game of Thrones Episode 604 Recap: Everything Gets Back on Track

Emilia Clarke On Her Latest Game of Thrones Nude Scene: "This Is All Me"


RELATEDSEEK

The 2016 Cannes Red Carpet’s Best-Dressed Celebrities
BY LAUREN LE VINE

The Curious Case of Blake Lively’s Disappearing and Reappearing Baby Bump at Cannes
BY LAUREN LE VINE

Leonardo DiCaprio and Kendall Jenner Make Waves at the Vanity Fair Cannes Party
BY RICHARD LAWSON
NEWSLETTER SIGN UP

SUBSCRIBE
Will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy
FOLLOW VF
VANITY FAIR WORLDWIDE:
UNITED KINGDOM
ITALY
MEXICO
SPAIN
FRANCE
VISIT OUR SISTER SITES
CONDÉ NAST STORE
REPRINT/PERMISSIONS
VF MEDIA KIT
PROMOTIONS
CONTACT VF
SUBSCRIBE
SUBSCRIBE
CUSTOMER SERVICE
ADVERTISING
INSIDE THE ISSUE
CAREERS
DIGITAL EDITION
SITEMAP
Condé Nast

© Condé Nast.Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective January 2, 2014) and Privacy Policy (effective January 2, 2014).Your CA Privacy Rights.The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.